---
layout: post
title:  "Three Suggestions for Democrats"
date:   2015-12-08 23:59:00
permalink: 2015-12-08-three-suggestions-for-democracts
---

As I have followed politics with increasing interest and fervor over the last few years, I'm
starting to (a) get a better picture of how it works, and to (b) think that I could make some
suggestions to politicians that have at least a modicum of senisbility to them. In particular, here
are three quick suggestions for Democrats, relating to gun control, the tax code, and radical Islam.

**Gun Control**

On gun control, [the Senate recently voted down on a Democrat-designed
bill](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/senate-gop-votes-terrorist-gun-bill-article-1.2454448)
principally designed to prevent suspected terrorists (e.g., those on the nation's no-fly list) from
buying guns. The decision was almost entirely partisan-based.

My question is: what were those Democrats thinking? In an age of divided government, the voting
outcome on a bill -- which, by the way, I do support -- should have been obvious.

As I was reading Nicholas Kristof's lamentations in his [*On Guns, We're Not Even
Trying*](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/03/opinion/on-guns-were-not-even-trying.html) op-ed, I saw
him comment on Pennsylvania republican Tim Murphy's bill designed to improve mental health.
(Disclaimer: I have not read about this in depth at all.) Mental health overhaul is the standard
Republican response to counter gun deaths in America.

So here's another question: would it have been *at all possible* to try and incorporate *a fraction*
of those mental health provisions into that bill that just failed? Furthermore, instead of all the
proposals in the Democrat-designed bill, how about *just one thing*: preventing people from buying
guns if they are on the terrorist list, but add that (a) there [are not as many people on the list
as some would
suggest](http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2015/dec/06/marco-rubio/marco-rubio-says-700000-americans-could-be-affecte/),
and (b) call for an overhaul to the list to ensure that there aren't any innocent people on it. Keep
it simple for politicians and the public alike to understand.

At the very least, given the polarization on gun control, it seems like a waste of time to continue
trying to propose gun control measures that are entirely sided towards one party's interest.

**The Tax Code**

In most of the Republican presidential debates, and somewhere on most of the Republican candidates'
websites, I see the following come up over and over again: *simplify the tax code*. Yet I don't see
this discussion as much on the Democratic side, in part because I think "simplify the tax code" is
synonymous with "tax cuts for the rich."

Does it really have to be that way? Is it not possible, for instance, to enforce some of the
simplifications presented in [Jeb Bush's tax
plan](https://jeb2016.com/backgrounder-jeb-bushs-tax-reform-plan/?lang=en), but *without* the
subsequent tax cuts on the super-wealthy? In other words, we get rid of the various loopholes that
plague the tax code (which I don't understand *at all*), but keep the top rate at the 40
percent or so that it is now? To me, this seems like a logical idea that Democrats should discuss.
Moreover, it would probably be popular with many voters.

**Radical Islam**

Many (if not all?) of the Republican presidential candidates have denounced President Obama and
Hillary Clinton for refusing to say "radical Islam." Those two don't say that due to concerns over
alienating Muslims.

Here's my suggestion: can we move on from this and just say "radical Islam" already?

I know this might be controversial, but when I look at those words together, the "radical" part to
me seems to imply something *far removed* from standard Islam. Something "far removed from standard
Islam" is what took over the minds of the San Bernardino shooters. Standard Islam is nothing like
that.  Even most of the Republican candidates (sans Trump) understand that the vast majority of
Muslims are not radicals (or "jihadists" if you prefer), and in fact, are among some of our biggest
allies against terrorism.

Unfortunately, I think the skyrocketing obsession over whether President Obama and Hillary Clinton
will say "radical Islam" is overshadowing real issues. To me, it makes sense to just get on the same
page and state the fact that the war on terror is *in part* a war against people who claim that they
are "Muslims." If there are concerns over alienating *real* Muslims, then why not add gigantic
disclaimers, like this: "we are at war with radical Islam, which I repeat, does *not not NOT* mean
we are at war with the vast majority of Muslims, or at war with the religion itself."

I think part of the reason for Donald Trump's dangerous rise is that people are frustrated with
President Obama's stance on terrorism, and if we can at least agree that the problem is "radical
Islam," which I *repeat* (and will happy to say *over and over* again), is *not, not, NOT* the same
as "Islam," then Republicans and Democrats can find more substantive issues about which to argue.
And yes, I did say two giant disclaimers to try and hammer the point home.

